---
categories:
  - "[[Zettelkasten]]"
type:
  - "[[Main Note]]"
date: 2025-10-05, 11:59
topics:
  - "[[Content Creation]]"
  - "[[Writing]]"
---
# 5.1a1 How to build a sustainable writing habit

As we already talked about in note 5.1a, building a writing habit is life changing.

Here’s how to build one of your own.
## **SET A WHY**

Each one of my previous attempts on writing failed for the same exact reason: relying on pure inspiration.

If you’re thinking about writing, then you probably have a reason to be writing. Either you want to write for clarifying your thoughts, to connect with others, to support a business you care about or even to share the fiction stories on your imagination.

No matter what is the reason behind, your writing needs to be aligned with the life you want to live. It needs to be aligned to you.

## COMMIT TO A SCHEDULE

```
I will write [number of articles] in [time scale].

In my case:
	I will write [8 articles] in [1 month].
```

Stick to this commitment and use it as anchor.

## TELL PEOPLE ABOUT IT

One of the best ways to stick to something is telling someone. It may be a friend, family, couple, or the whole internet. It doesn’t matter.

The goal is for you to be accountable.

## **MAKE TIME TO WRITE**

If you’re writing in some gaps of free time, that great. Much better than not writing at all. But you need to shield some time 100% protected for writing. 

It may be a couple of hours on Sunday, or it can be distributed during the week. I suggest you do it the first thing in the morning, but as anything, is better done than perfect, so make it fit into your calendar.

## **THE WRITING HABIT LOOP**

Detailed on the note 5.1a2, the writing loop based on the principle of getting feedback and iterating from it.

1. Capture and generate ideas
2. Write content
3. Get feedback

The feedback are ideas to write about.

That’s how you create a creator flywheel.

---
previous: [[5.1a Building a sustainable writing habit changed my life]]
next: [[5.1a1a The Creator Flywheel]]
see [[5.1a2 The writing habit loop]] for getting into more details of the writing loop.
