---
categories:
  - "[[Zettelkasten]]"
type:
  - "[[Main Note]]"
date: 2025-11-05
topics:
  - "[[NoteTaking]]"
  - "[[Entrepreneurship]]"
---
# 6.1d Using bookmarks instead of folders

> [!QUOTE] Original Capture
> Using bookmarks instead of folders

Usually, people use use folders to organize everything inside their “second brains”.

The BASB methodology came up with the acronym PARA to organize folders:

- Projects
- Areas
- Resources
- Archive

On paper it looks amazing, but in practice it is not.

In practice you waste a lot of time deciding “should this go here or there?” and as your workspace expands, the categories start merging one another.

Folders themselves are a problem (see [[6.1d1 Folders are good for knowledge management]]), and the best solution I’ve found is using bookmarks.

*As a disclaimer, this is focused on Obsidian. The principles are useful whatever your app is, but the practical parts are specific to this.*

Bookmarks are UI of a solid tagging system, and using Obsidian Bases makes them 100X better.

Basically, you create an obsidian base and filter all your notes through the tags you stablish.

You can create groups of bookmarks, that way you’re able to access every note very quickly by a navigational tool.

Here’s how mine looks:

```
FLAT System Workspace
	Reference Notes
	Fleeting Notes
	Asleep Notes
	Zettelkasten

Content OS
	Hub Content
	Tweets Swipefile
	Content Templates

Resources
	Prompts
```

My workspace is always growing, and each time I have the urge to see all the files related to any specific thing, I add tags and a bookmark to see them all together.

---
next: 
- [[6.1d1 Folders are good for knowledge management]]
- [[6.1d2 How to set up a solid tagging system]]
- [[6.1d3 The simplest use-case for Obsidian Bases]]
- [[6.1d4 The go-to Obsidian plugins]]