---
date: 2025-10-09, 20:18
categories:
  - "[[Zettelkasten]]"
type:
  - "[[Main Note]]"
topics:
  - "[[Entrepreneurship]]"
  - "[[Start-Up]]"
---
# 7.1 I don't really resonate with the startup world

A few minutes ago I read a page of HubNet chilean newspaper about the so called unicorns in Chile.

There were only three, that got into that category by being in the right place at the right time. One in 2020, the next one month later and the last, one year later. Then… nothing.

It got me thinking and reminded me about the book Rework by Jason Fried (1), who stablished a few ideas I really resonate with. And the reason why I don’t really like the startup mindset.

Startups are fully bonded to the grinding mindset, which is fine. But most of them see as the measure of success an quick and explosive growth followed by an exit.

And I don’t see the point in building just for the exit and cash out.

Another thing I really don’t like is how startups are money burning machines. One of the main priorities of a startup is getting big investor money, spread and be in everyone’s mouth, and THEN find out how to actually make a profit out of it.

It takes a weight off me to see people realizing that what we need is more sustainable companies, not more unicorns.

---
next:
- [[7.1a Unicorn startups are the result of an investment bubble]]
- [[7.1b What we need is more small & sustainable businesses]]
- [[7.4 Three reasons why startup hubs work]]
- 

see: [[7.2 If you want to convince investors, convince yourself first]]


(1) [[Rework by Jason Fried]]